[Music]
okay have a couple questions for you
have you ever lost something around your
house and found it a few months later
what about the times you couldn't decide
which shirt to wear at work and you
ended up going topless all kidding aside
life is too short to shuffle through all
of your stuff in order to find what
you're looking for according to the
National Association of professional
organizers we spend at least one year of
our lives looking for stuff so why do we
hold onto things well the answer is
simple
not everything comes with an expiration
date so we're unsure when we should get
rid of old items but ditching things
that we no longer use can help us
maximize space and improve productivity
to help yourself declutter you have to
follow one simple rule Chuck away
anything you haven't used in the past
two years now don't go around putting
everything in boxes that will create a
huge mess instead do one item at a time
starting with the following number one
unmatched socks everybody has a drawer
with a handful of socks that lost their
other half somewhere along the way it's
as if a vortex opens up and sucks them
in one at a time anyway the only reason
to keep single socks is if you're
looking to get crafty and upcycle them
to CDs and DVDs this is gonna be a tough
one people put a lot of pride and effort
into creating their movie collections
but with the push of a button you can
transfer all of them onto a hard drive
okay you don't need to abandon all your
favorites but the second best should
move out number-three old knives every
person when starting out in their first
home acquired a cheap set of steak
knives if you're one of those people
then you know that not only are they
dull to begin with they can't even be
sharpened so the best thing to do is
send them away
number four hair ties short hair or long
hair these little elastic Devils have
been in our houses long enough to
deteriorate if you have a drawer with
more broken hair elastics than good ones
then you need to get rid of them show
your hair some love it's better to
invest in a few good quality hair bands
than have a hundred of them constantly
breaking number five old condiment
packets oh I've run out of condiment
packets said nobody here's the thing
takeout places usually give you twice
the amount of packets you need for your
meal yet you keep them just in case well
that case never arrives and they expire
so save yourself the struggle and Chuck
them number six expired spices okay we
all know that we need to toss out milk
when it gets sour what spices are a
different story we hold on to our spices
in case we need to give our dishes some
extra flavour but we keep them way too
long
you see spices won't expire in the sense
of making you ill but they'll lose
flavor and when tumeric begins to taste
like dust it's time to throw it out
number seven
rusty razors wow what a great stage name
now this is an important one razors that
are kept in a moist environment tend to
get rusty twice as fast shaving with
rusty razors can cause burns and skin
infections when they're kept in the
shower bacteria grows on them so their
blades should be replaced more
frequently
number eight sheets when sheets are
washed too many times they become shall
we say translucent plus it's really
uncomfortable to sleep on them
the only reason to keep them around is
if you plan to turn them into cleaning
cloths number nine plastic bags
don't get me wrong all of us hoard them
because we know that we shouldn't throw
them out but there are places you can
take your plastic bags and recycle them
putting an end to the ever-growing mass
number ten containers without lids
here's another mystery live list food
containers
how do those lids vanish maybe they
paired up with the missing socks in the
vortex until we find out you can recycle
the single ones number 11 expensive
skincare this is a wake-up call for
people who buy expensive moisturizers
and store them because they don't want
to use them too quickly
well skin care products that are rarely
used are a great source of bacterial
growth so it's safer for your skin if
you get rid of them number 12 dead
batteries imagine your TV remote has run
out of batteries what do you do
shuffle through your junk drawer to find
one only to discover none of them work
don't get me wrong we all hoard
batteries just in case one of them
recharges itself but they never do save
yourself the hassle and throw them out
in the proper way
of course 13 outdated magazines and
newspapers when your paper collection
keeps growing you're less likely to pick
up one and reread it after all
you acquired all the information you
need it so unless there's something
special in one of the newspapers or
magazines you keep toss them already
[Music]
number fourteen office supplies things
like colored pens and little notepads
make us feel more organized but thanks
to technology even post-it notes are now
digitized granted you need the supplies
you use regularly but the ones have been
sitting in your drawer can be donated
number 15 excess coffee mugs it begins
with the phrase
oh that's a nice mug and it ends with an
ever increasing collection you should
see mine the truth is most of us have a
few favorite coffee mugs the rest of
them sit in a cupboard collecting dust
sixteen old phones let's face it you've
upgraded your phone several years ago
and your old one sits in your junk
drawer keeping the empty batteries
company it's time to say goodbye you can
recycle your phone and get some cash
back as well number 17 travel toiletries
there are better ways to remember your
adventurous vacation than holding on to
tiny shampoos and soap bottle from the
hotel you stayed in they're just sitting
in a bathroom cupboard taking up all
your space if they're more than two
years old then folks it's time to toss
them number eighteen empty notebooks and
journals okay if you haven't picked up
the habit of writing everyday in your
journal then it's time to pass it along
it's better to gift it to someone who
can get good use out of it 19 power
cords unless you're an electrician or an
engineer who can get inventive with
their old power cords there's no reason
to keep them older power cords don't
usually match new appliances so holding
on to them is pointless kind of like my
old pencil 20 Cal
there are two main reasons people hold
on to last year's calendar the transfer
old dates or recall their old schedule
it's the end of the summer if you
haven't transferred the dates or look at
your old calendar and months then it's
time to recycle it 21 receipts don't get
me wrong some receipts should be kept
for warranty purposes or tax deductibles
but they should be filed accordingly if
you still have the receipt from the
takeout place you ate lunch at a week
ago then you know what to do 22 close
that no longer fits you whether you lost
weight or gained weight
clothes that go more than two sizes in
either direction should move out of your
closet even when you manage to fit into
those clothes they'll already be out of
fashion not having to shuffle through
all the unwanted clothes will save you a
ton of time in the mornings 23 old
prescriptions and supplements we hold
onto old prescription medication in case
we get ill again and self-diagnose
ourselves with Google this is a huge
mistake there are many things and can go
wrong with all prescription medication
so it's better to get rid of them
the same principle applies to
supplements the good thing is that they
come with an expiration date so while
you're chucking away old prescriptions
do the same with supplements 24 takeout
menus takeout menus are like emergency
service phone numbers you need to know
they're there but with all the takeout
places having their menus online there's
no reason to keep them plus most
restaurants keep adding new things to
their menus so the ones you have in your
kitchen drawers are probably missing
some tasty new dishes twenty-five
greeting cards okay this is a tough one
keeping cards from people who have
passed away is a given also cards from
people you adore but the five-year-old
birthday card given to you by a person
you hardly speak to should be recycled
26 loofah
if your loofah is more than a month ol
it should be replaced as time progresses
they get dirtier loofas have lots of
porous nooks and crannies when you
exfoliate these crannies get filled with
dead skin cells and then bacteria begins
to multiply move some loofahs can be
washed but the natural one should be
chucked away number 27 cardboard boxes
holding onto the box the big-ticket
items such as a computer or a TV is
normal
besides you need them in case you move
or sell them however cardboard boxes
that you've used ages ago
should get recycled 28 damaged
dinnerware a chip on a coffee mug or a
dinner plate doesn't seem problematic
but over time the chip gets filled with
food and water making it a great source
of bacterial growth so don't hesitate to
get rid of them 29 appliances whether
it's a keyboard waffle maker or a normal
toaster that you've used once don't hold
on to it some appliances are more
trouble to use than not so you can make
someone else happy by donating it 30 old
towels if your bathroom towels begin to
feel like cardboard boxes this is a sign
that they've reached their lifespan you
can repurpose them into a bathroom rug
or you can donate them to an animal
shelter and get yourself new ones so
tell me which item do you think we
should all get rid of first let me know
down in the comments if you learned
something new today
then give this video a like and share it
with a friend but hey don't go
decluttering just yet we have over 2,000
cool videos for you to check out all you
have to do is pick the left or right
video click on it
and enjoy stay on the bright side of
life
[Music]